In this video take a look at how Wikinews functions mph be a function is basically a block of code.
We assign a name to this block a code and call it you know program where we want to run it.
It's really useful when we have the same code more than once in our program.
And rather than type all the cold over and over again we can play cycle inside a function and call a
function when it's required.
BHP also has lots of built in functions.
Our disposal.
We've looked at one or two of these in the last few videos.
Okay so we get started by crane function by using the function keyword.
And then after that when it give the function a name followed by the parentheses or the brackets.
So the name can be my function and then use the brackets after that.
And then the contents of the function is within a set of curly braces.
So everytime this function is called the code inside is curly braces It will be run.
So for example a basic way of doing a function is just a Echo.
So my first function.
So it's all this function doesn't do any anything until I call it.
And the way we call it is just simply by typing in the function name.
So my function and then the parentheses followed by its chemical.
So now when we run my function we should get the text of my first function printed to the browser.
And inside the function we can even have different variables inside there.
So just like we looked are a few videos ago.
We can use a username so a username equal to Chris and a second variable of posts.
Equal to 5 an ember can echo to a screen.
Chris has five posts so Echo would in the equalizations So the username has.
Five posts.
So now am I call this function.
Will she get the message to the screen.
Would in the echo.
So say that and then refresh the browser.
Armour can take functions even further by passing in parameters.
So let's create a new function.
If wants create a function to multiply numbers
and this time instead it just leaving the brackets empty which can pass in two parameters or even more.
So um one uses to multiply two variables so variable number A and separate by commas variable number
be.
So every time this function is called Wanted to multiply the value of A with the value of b.
So let's echo.
Variable A.
Multiply by variable B.
N n.
Passing the numbers we'll call the function by its name.
So multiply numbers and add two numbers it want to multiply.
Can pass inside these brackets.
So 12 and 2 for example.
So now we may call this function.
We know how the value of 12 multiply by two.
So we should get the value of 24 on the screen.
Okay great.
So what we just done is we've effectively created a variable of A and B and then needs to take up the
values of 12 and two and then multiply them together and display the results to the browser.
Okay so that's how you work with functions.
MP HP and it's also how the can pass parameters into functions and or C in the next video.
Take a look at conditional statements and more operators.